# Edit_Distance
I used the edit distance algorithm to find the most similar words in a file. I wrote a method that takes as input either a .txt file or a .pdf file or a file that begins with http. To parse the .txt file, BufferedReader was used which reads line by line and appends each word to StringBuilder object. To parse the webpage, Jsoup was used. Jsoup.connect() was used to connect to the url provided and read the HTML contents. doc.body().text() extracts the text from the HTML document body. To parse the pdf file, Apache PDFBox was used. PDFTextStripper class was used to extract the contents from the pdf file. I have also written a method that takes .html or .htm files as input and parses them using the Jsoup library. All the extracted words were then stored in a string array. 

The input word was taken from the user. The edit distance method was called to compare this word with all the other words from the file (stored in the string array) and calculate the edit distance. The edit distance method used a 2-dimensional array where the first row and column were initialized from 0 to the length of the corresponding strings. Row stores string 1 characters and columns stores string 2 characters. It compares each character of the two strings. If they are equal, no edit operation needs to take place. If they are not equal, three operations can take place: insert, delete or replace. 

The findSimilarWords method takes a word and a file path as inputs, extracts text from the file, and splits the text into words. All the words along with their corresponding edit distances were stored in an array list called similarWords. 

The Collections.sort method was used to sort the array list based on the edit distance. The top  similar words from the array list are displayed to the user in increasing order of edit distances. The smaller the edit distance, the more similar the word is.  
